The self-cultivation of leeks   
manner            
The fundamental reason why “leeks” lack manners…
pamphlet          
This pamphlet was finally titled The Self-Cultivation of Leeks
sensational headline    
But quite a few of the articles that spread like crazy online used sensational headlines
transcript      
Maybe they used the so-called transcript that was spread online and completely misinterpreted what I said
long-term 
“Li Xiaolai’s behavior”, according to some of the articles, became “confirmation of long-term suspicions held by outsiders about the dark side of blockchain”
lecture
Over the past ten-plus years, those who have read my writings, listened to my lectures, or read my books all know that I have a habit
novice 
Does this mean that a novice is always a “leek”? 
intentionally 
It doesn’t intentionally “record everything without regard to truth or falsity or good or evil and in a way that is difficult to truly alter”,
evenhanded
 It’s evenhanded, just like the concept of “blockchain” that we are so enchanted with, or the concept of “time” that I have been enchanted with all of my life.
malicious 
 Also, I can purposely use this malicious title, and let more valuable thinking and truth spread more widely
Sickle   The Leek and the Sickle
self-mocking
But, in the end, I thought that a self-mocking title with “leeks” in it would bring more traffic…
fool stupid sucker dumbass
Also, in the content that follows, I won’t avoid using the word dumbass. Please forgive me!
scoundrel 
For instance, it would be difficult for the adjective before “scoundrel” to be “kind-hearted”.
adversary
The action of “cutting” in theory should be carried out by the adversary (the so-called “big player”),
exaggerate
“I’m a leek and I cut the ‘big players’!” If someone actually says this, you can be almost sure that they are exaggerating.
devastated
Those who haven’t made money, when they see someone like you who has made money, will feel even more devastated if you don’t use this “fake” language to comfort their weak hearts
exasperating 
The market has some exasperating laws, such as:  As soon as you need to use cash, the market will fall!
infuriating   bizarre
As soon as you sell, the price will rise… It’s simply infuriating! So why does this “bizarre” situation occur?
absurdity
Our lives are full of absurdity, so clearly recognizing that we live in an absurd world is extremely practical and helpful for our healthy development.
 take it as a given
I don’t know why — almost all countries in the world take it as a given that it isn’t a required course in general and higher education
reckless
The poorer someone is, the stronger their desire to make money, so they often don’t hesitate to make reckless moves
noose
In this way many novices dig holes for themselves and put on the noose
redeem 
If your luck is good enough, then you’ll be like me and have a chance to redeem yourself
speculation   superficial
People often use long-term and short-term to distinguish between “speculation” and “investment”, but this is very superficial. 
connotation
People see speculation as having a negative connotation, while investment as having a positive one, but this is also a common mistake and a superficial point of view
diligently 
Before trading, research diligently and study deeply.
periodically 
And how many people have not only read it, but read it multiple times, and periodically bring it out to read it again? 
established fact
“Entering at the tail end of the bull market” is the fate of most people, so there’s nothing to complain about, and because it’s “established fact”, there’s no way to change it.
algebra

a type of mathematics that uses letters and other signs to represent numbers and values

bitter

Everyone has to clearly explain their own bitter experiences to themselves — not an explanation for others, but an explanation for themselves.

terminal 

In a hospital, everyone who contracts a terminal illness must go through a painful period of “self-explanation”.

interrogation

This is an incredibly painful and uncomfortable self-interrogation

vixen

There are some ugly girls in class, and their explanation for “having never received any love letter” is this: “I’m not that type of person! Not like those vixens…”

torment 

For instance, aside from making them inauthentic, in order to make this twisted explanation stand up, they will not hesitate to use any means to torment and frame those whom they call “vixens”.

endorse 

According to my observations, all leeks endorse an idea that is actually mistaken: So-called trading is a “zero-sum game”.
anguish

Then why are people overjoyed when they willingly buy, but later on start to utter cries of anguish?

oppressed

 In a bear market, everyone is oppressed, and sometimes good assets fall even more steeply…

mature   participate  gambling

Also, when you’re a little bit more mature, you will understand: in the future, you must not participate in any zero-sum games — they are a bigger waste of time than gambling! 

species

Because “leeks” believe that they are playing a “zero-sum game”, as soon as they enter the market they almost turn into a different species. 

destine

Why are they destined to call each other “dumbasses”? It’s a zero-sum game

vulgar 

If someone thinks incorrectly, or if the direction of their thought is incorrect, then in an instant they will truly become a vulgar person

sincere 

So people who think deeply have a natural and sincere politeness:
Shorts (sellers) and longs (buyers) brush past each other and wish each other all the best.
symmetrical

Just like in chess, what is done first and what is done later is the final determinant of winning and losing — both sides have the same number of pieces, and the board is symmetrical, but in the end there is winning and losing. 

tactics

“sequence” has a lot of other names, such as “tactics”.

master key

Every lock has its own key, and the vast majority of people don’t have a master key

conspiracy

Overly simple answers are often overlooked, because, just as people always assume that major events are controlled by vast conspiracies

blind

So observe carefully: those who blindly believe in value investing can only understand their mistake and quietly pay for their incorrect decisions.

inferior

If you’ve never thought of this before, there is no need to feel inferior

eliminate

In an extreme situation, one participant might only have 10,000 to bet, so if he loses in the first round he will be eliminated.

perturb

They wouldn’t. It’s more likely that they would be calm and unperturbed. 

snorkel

Always keep a certain percentage, or at least a certain amount, in cash — just as you need an oxygen tank when snorkeling, it’s not negotiable.

jumble

In urban legends, taking risks is always jumbled together with “bravery”. 

admonition

This is a deep and wise admonition. 

ambiguity 

The ambiguity arises from the phrase “other people”, and it’s usually those who have failed at investing or speculating who “step right up” and misunderstand it

rationally 

Similarly, the “watch” in “watch other people take risks” obviously doesn’t refer to “watching with ill will”, but instead refers to rationally observing and learning.

taking into account 

What’s even scarier is takings risks without taking into account the costs…
addict 

because these are terms that only a gambling addict who was in a hurry to play Mahjong would propose

fraud

Laws are a lot of fun: if the issuer of a traded item fails to notify the public of the risk involved, they are quite likely to be determined to have committed the crime of fraud.
























